# Instructions for setting up your development environment to build a connector #
These instructions assume you will be using Eclipse and Windows.
  * If you do not already have a compatible version of Java installed (any version from 1.6.0\_25 and up, including version 7), download and install the Sun JDK from [Java SE Downloads](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html).
  * If you do not already have eclipse installed, download the _Eclipse IDE for Java Developers_ from [Eclipse Downloads](http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/).  Unzip the archive to your directory of choice.  There isn't an installer so you may wish to create a shortcut from _eclipse.exe_ to somewhere more convenient.
  * If you do not already have Subversion installed, download and install Subversion from the [Apache Subversion Binary Package](http://subversion.apache.org/packages.html) page.  There are several distributions for Windows.  The instructions will assume the use of the version maintained by `CollabNet`.  Download the version titled _`CollabNet` Subversion Command-Line Client v1.6.17 (for Windows)_ from `CollabNet`'s website.
  * Download the binary archive of the Apache Maven build tool from http://maven.apache.org/download.html. For Toolkit version 1.1 you will need maven version 2.2.1 or later; for later Toolkit versions you will need maven version 3.0 or later. Unzip the archive to your directory of choice. Next we will need to make two changes to your Windows Environment variables (these instructions are also in the Maven README).  Right click on _My Computer_ or _Computer_ depending on your version of Windows and select Properties.  In the Window that appears click _Advanced System Settings_ or the _Advanced_ tab.  Finally, in the new window that appears select _Environment Variables..._.
    1. In the area under _System variables_ select the Variable _Path_.  Edit it, and at the very end, you will append a semicolon and then add the full path to the bin directory of the maven archive you just unzipped.  If you put the archive in your Program Files directory it might look something like this: _c:\program files\apache-maven-2.2.1\bin_
    1. Next we need to add a new system variable JAVA\_HOME to point to your JDK.  Select _New..."_, enter the name JAVA\_HOME and put in the path to your JDK. It might look something like this:  _c:\Program Files\Java\jdk1.7.0\_
    1. Finally, you may need to reboot for the changes to take effect.
  * Next checkout the source code for the Toolkit core (on which your connector will be built).  **NOTE that the source code tab on the project assumes a different repository layout than we are using.** From the command line, navigate to the directory you would like the core source code to be downloaded to.  Using svn checkout the code:  _svn checkout http://xcncip2toolkit.googlecode.com/svn/core/trunk ._ (Note the '.' at the end of that command, which tells svn to put the files in the current directory.) This will create several directories, e.g. _binding_, _common_, _service_, etc. in your current directory.  When the download completes issue the command _mvn install_.  When this completes you have successfully built the core and the war file will be in the dummy/web/target directory.
  * If the source code for the connector that you want to build already exists, check that out in the manner similar to the core except you will want to browse the source tree to get the correct path to the trunk of the respective connector.  One important thing to remember is that you must check out the code using https and a valid google username, otherwise google code will not allow you to check-in changes made to that working copy.  For example, to download the III connector code you would issue the command _svn checkout **https**://xcncip2toolkit.googlecode.com/svn/connectors/III/trunk/ III **--username user@domain.edu**_
  * To edit the connector code in Eclipse, in Eclipse click on File...Import.  Select the _maven_ folder->_Existing Maven Projects_ and click next.  Browse to the top level directory of your connector and select ok.  Eclipse should find your connector's pom file.  Hit Finish and a new project should have been created.